NEWS
====

v3.0.1

Fixes i18n/internationalization/localization.
User facing text for all plugins is now in the native language of the user,
for the languages for which translators have previously contributed a .po file.

This release has no other functional changes.
If you don't need translations, you don't need this release.

This is compatible with GIMP 3.0 or later.
The fixes are all to the Resynthesizer.
The changes are to the translation data, the build system, and to the plugins (to declare i18n.)
Resynthesizer still uses the GIMP 3.0 API; no changes to GIMP were required.

The build system installs translation data (the catalog)
to GIMP's system wide directory for installed plugins, not to a user specific directory,
and not to the platform's usual locale directory.
In the way that GIMP supports: to a "locale" subdirectory beneath the root directory of each plugin.

The translations data (a .po) for the set of Resynthesizer plugins, for a language, is in one file.
The one file covers the set of Resynthesizer plugins: seven "outer" plugins and one "engine" plugin.
The compiled translations data is named "resynthesizer3.mo."
That is, the translation_domain_name is "resynthesizer3."
The build installs the same file many places, duplicated for each plugin.
(A better way would be to install the file once, to the platform's locale directory,
but that seems to require a future change to GIMP.)

Packagers can move the plugin's installation, 
including the subdirectory "locale" containing the translation catalog,
to a user specific or sandbox directory.

Corrects some translations required by changes to Resynthesizer texts.
E.g. "Heal selection..." => "Heal Selection..." in the translation pairs,
because the plugin source files since 3.0  use newly capitalized texts
to conform with GNOME standards for menu capitalization.
A few texts new to 3.0 are still untranslated, e.g. "Anti-erase etc."
Some improved texts of the engine control plugin introduced in Resynthesizer 3.0 
have been reverted to their original 2.0 texts,
so that existing translations from 2.0 still work.


v3.0 for GIMP API 3.0

The outer plugins are in Scheme rather than Python.

The outer plugins and engine are ported to the GIMP API v3.

The user interface plugin (the control panel)
is in Scheme instead of C and Gtk.

The build system is meson instead of GNU automake.

Tests are revised, with new reference images (different from v2.0.)

Fixes for high-bit depth images.
The engine works in 8-bit depth, with loss of precision.

The Resynthesizer suite now accepts INDEXED images (having a palette.)
Results depend on the order of the palette being perceptual e.g. grayscale or "Sepia."

The "Sharpen" and "Enlarge and Sharpen" plugins are obsolete: 
not ported to Scheme and not installed.
They were little used.

The default build is non-threaded.

